=The Company=
=Season 1=
(Adapted from Xuan Se's novel
of the same title.)
=Episode 9=
The young escort master of Qinghe
is back.
Just you today?
The rest are worn out
and still resting.
Two finely minced pork buns
and a bowl of rice congee.
Thank you, madam.
Sure.
Please come in.
Madam.
Here you go.
Sure.
Come again.
Alright.
Let me take a look at that.
Madam,
I'll pay in full.
I'm not eating.
Wait.
You're leaving like this?
Did you see clearly?
That was Gu Bingyu?
(Laifu Storehouse)
Are we going in?
This place is crowded,
and the routes are intricate.
Go check if there's a back door.
Got it.
Two bowls of tea.
Coming.
Please sit.
Here's your tea.
There's no back door.
Only one exit.
Has he come out yet?
It's broad daylight.
What could take so long?
Should we go in and take a look?
Excuse me.
Which room is
Escort Gu Bingyu staying in?
Who are you?
We're his friends.
We got separated and came to meet him.
Gentlemen,
follow me.
Thank you.
Take the stairs to the second floor.
"Heaven" Room.
Split up.
No signs that the window was opened.
No footprints on the sill either.
He didn't leave through the window.
You're good at this, huh?
I watched dramas too, okay?
So, where did Gu Bingyu go?
Have you seen a guest
about this tall?
No.
Long face.
Let's go.
(Wedding Invitation,
Du Residence, Cangzhou)
Gu Bingyu!
Why the rush, Pu?
What happened?
Tell me honestly.
Did Huaijin
really die during the escort robbery
three years ago?
Of course.
I watched her...
I watched her breathe her last
in my arms.
How could that be fake?
I just...
I just
saw her in the city.
Impossible.
You must've mistaken someone else.
No.
I couldn't be wrong.
I may forget anyone or anything,
but her face
only grows clearer
with time.
Pu,
you should rest.
Didn't the physician say
love sickness made someone ill,
and accumulated worry became pain?
That can cause hallucinations.
If this continues,
I fear your inner demons
will overcome you.
I told you I wasn't mistaken!
Why won't you believe me?
You're her brother.
Don't you want her to still be alive?
Fine.
If you don't believe me,
let's go to Guangji Apothecary.
She might pass by there again.
Pu.
Let's go find her.
Let's go now.
Pu Jingtang, wake up!
Gu Huaijin is dead.
She's dead.
Please.
Forget her.
No.
I don't want to wake up.
Revive the Gu family
and restore its honor.
It's enough
that you alone stay clear-headed.
What am I?
I'm just a lodger who doesn't even
deserve to guard her grave.
I can do nothing.
Aside from mourning,
all I can do is sit there every day,
playing sorrowful tunes that never end.
Within it, there lives an ancient tune.
Yet few today truly appreciate it.
Sir, I would gladly play it,
but would you care to listen?
Set off.
I didn't see Mr. Gu at all.
Gu Huaijin.
You finally show yourself.
Or should I call you
Gu Bingyu?
You?
He?
The same person?
Liuqing Comb can shift yin and yang.
You used it to turn into a man
to take your brother's place
and become
the head of the escort agency.
I don't understand what you're saying.
At the inn earlier today,
you changed from a man into a woman.
I didn't notice at first.
Not until I found an empty cloth bundle
in the room.
What used to be inside
should've been women's clothes, right?
You think you can identify me
just by a bundle?
The butler at the Gu Residence
would recognize you.
You were afraid he saw you,
so you waited
until the escort team left,
then secretly returned
to Gu Bingyu's room.
Shall I call him over to confirm it?
Shut up.
Who are you, really?
Miss, let's talk calmly.
You're not a ruthless person.
And we mean no harm.
This Liuqing Comb belonged
to a friend of mine.
He was caught in a family struggle
and died in a fire.
His home was burned to ruins,
and many heirlooms
were lost in the fire.
The reason we've been searching for you
is only to take Liuqing Comb back.
I see.
You also carry a feud.
You want to help your friend
restore his family.
(Memorial Tablet of
the Late Brother Gu Bingyu)
Bingyu!
Watch out!
Bingyu.
Huaijin.
This comb
is called Liuqing.
I got it from a stranger.
Legend has it that
this comb can turn yin into yang
and yang into yin.
It once helped a woman
to become a general on the battlefield.
Huaijin.
Why are all the men
so foolish and incompetent,
no match for a woman like Tiying?
Remember.
Protect the Gu's clear reputation.
You can do it.
Bingyu.
Bingyu, don't die.
You're such a remarkable woman.
Heaven never lets the persistent down.
I've finally found the mastermind
behind the escort robbery back then.
Since we're in the same situation,
could you return the comb
to us?
Please forgive me.
I still have an unfinished matter.
Please stay here for now.
I still need Liuqing Comb.
Once it's done,
I may personally return it to you.
My apologies.
She speaks politely,
but she fights without mercy.
That unfinished matter
must be taking revenge on her enemy.
Enough talk.
Let's get out of here first.
She locked the door.
The window won't open either.
Could there be a secret passage?
Have you seen a guest
about this tall?
No.
Long face.
(Wedding Invitation,
Du Residence, Cangzhou)
Stop looking.
I know where she's going.
Where?
Cangzhou.
We can't even get out of here. Cangzhou?
Let's go.
Where to?
The Du Residence.
(Du Residence)
(Du Wenhua, former Governor of Cangzhou)
My Lord,
the ginseng soup has been tasted.
Also,
Master Du is requesting an audience.
Let him in.
(Grand Coordinator,
adopted son of Du Wenhua)
Father.
Well,
it's so early.
What's the matter?
The wedding arrangements
are nearly complete.
Everyone in the family
hopes
you'll take the seat of honor.
Lian is the descendant of the Du family
and your only grandson.
He wishes
to offer you a cup of gratitude tea.
This soup
is unclean.
You want me
to step out that door.
But you know it yourself.
Morality and filial duty
mean nothing to me.
Since leaving the palace,
you've been my adopted son
for over forty years.
Have we ever eaten
at the same table?
I've lived so cautiously all my life.
Why should I break the habit
now?
Father,
I've followed you for many years.
My loyalty is carved into my bones.
I truly hope you'll see
the Du family prosper
with all the generations
united under one roof.
Father,
you're the true master of the Du family.
No matter
how high I rise,
I'll never reach
even a slight fraction of
your standing at court.
Stop.
I'll drink it now.
It's clean now.
Please come in.
(Du Residence)
Did you find anything?
Yes.
There's a lot of food today.
This is especially good. Try it.
And you?
Did you see that chubby man
carrying two blades?
Steady steps.
And that tall one.
His fists are bigger than your face.
That's normal.
My face is small.
And that red-clad woman.
Her face is full of killing intent.
That short one.
His qinggong is impressive.
Every one of them is a master.
Have you ever seen a wedding
with this many experts?
Looks like
today's wedding banquet
is anything but ordinary.
Old Master Du has arrived!
Please watch your step.
Careful.
- Congratulations, Old Master Du.
On this auspicious day,
the Du Residence celebrates great joy.
Perform the dance and bring blessings.
Father, look.
I invited them.
What's that?
This is Nuo dance.
It's to ward off evil and disease
and summon good fortune.
They're rich indeed.
It's said the Nuo dance
can quell dark spirits.
All demons
have fled in fear.
You're right, Father.
Excellent!
- Right!
- Good!
The Gu family of Qinghe
comes to congratulate Old Master Du
on this marriage alliance.
Is that
Miss Gu?
Father.
The Gu family
is clever enough to be undone
by their own cleverness.
From your very first move,
every trace was under my control.
I've been waiting for this moment.
Take him away.
- Yes.
Everyone.
No need to panic.
This intruder merely has
a trivial grudge with the Du family.
It was just a minor incident.
It won't affect the wedding.
Today is a fine day.
We have fine brew.
Son.
Yes, Father.
You're right, Father.
The auspicious hour
has arrived.
Let's go inside.
Yes.
Watch your step.
Guests, please take your seats.
She's gone now.
What do we do?
Gu Huaijin has been hidden
and planning for years.
She wouldn't act so rashly.
Let's go in first.
The bride arrives.
The auspicious hour begins.
Husband and wife, bow.
May the couple live in harmony,
and forever as one.
Rise.
Second bow.
May their descendants flourish
for generations to come.
Rise.
Third bow to honor the elders.
Bow.
What's going on?
What's wrong with her?
Why isn't she bowing?
Die!
Go get the horses.
Kill her.
No!
Don't move.
Who are you?
I'm Gu Huaijin
from Qinghe Escort Agency,
whose family was destroyed
by Du Wenhua's scheme.
Du Wenhua, I've waited for this day
to come a long time.
The injustice has finally
been overturned.
The authorities hastily closed the case
as a bandit robbery.
I always knew something was wrong.
Ridiculous!
I was the governor of Cangzhou.
Why would I rob a small escort agency?
Because that escort
was never an ordinary one.
Cangzhou embezzled funds
under the name of disaster relief.
The imperial court ordered the ledgers
to be sent to the capital for inspection.
So, the former governor
assigned the task to
the best escort agency,
the Gu Escort Agency.
This was a conspiracy to deceive
those above and below.
And Du Wenhua
(Gu Escort Agency)
was the mastermind
behind the murder and robbery.
Miss.
Miss,
calm down.
Look,
this courtyard
is full of experts and soldiers.
If you kill him,
you won't leave here alive.
There's no need to threaten me.
If I dared come here today,
I never planned on leaving alive.
No...
Father!
Old Master!
Careful.
Why are you here?
I came for revenge.
Why are you so foolish?
Our fate hasn't ended yet.
How could I forget?
Your hatred
is mine.
Father,
save me!
Stop!
Lian.
Sir.
Please don't hurt my child.
Tell them to step back.
Alright.
Step back.
Step back!
Don't be afraid.
Father.
Mother.
We may not
get out of here.
The last sight of this lifetime
is you in red bridal robes.
That's enough for me
to see this.
I have
no more regrets.
No.
We can't die
on our enemy's ground.
I'll take you away from here.
Calm down.
Help!
I'm here.
Make them step back.
Alright.
Quick. Step back.
Move aside.
Step back.
Don't be afraid.
Save me, Father.
I'm here.
Don't move.
Father.
Mother.
Why help me?
What I want is still in your hands.
Tell them to move aside.
Come here.
All of you, come here.
Come on.
Don't be afraid.
Father.
I'm here.
Mother.
Don't be afraid, Lian.
I'm here.
Bizhi.
Come on.
Get on the horse.
You go first.
Father.
Don't be afraid, Lian. I'm here.
Lian.
Father.
After them!
Go.
(Tomb of the Late Sister Gu Huaijin)
Thank you for helping me
fulfill my last wish.
Don't mention it.
This should be returned as well.
Miss Gu,
do you need to use it one last time?
I've thought it through.
I won't live on
using my brother's identity anymore.
I don't know what will become
of the Gu Escort Agency,
but it's time to face reality.
"One shouldn't fear the changes
under heaven.
One shouldn't blindly follow
ancestral rules.
One shouldn't be deterred
by complaints of others."
This is what Jingtang taught me.
Miss Gu,
I want to tell you something.
In the future,
women can achieve great things
and shoulder
great responsibilities like men.
You don't have to become someone's wife
to live freely
and openly.
Really?
That would be wonderful.
Take care.
You too.
Do you know what you just did...
I know.
Explosive bottles are dangerous.
I won't do it again.
I was desperate to save them.
I saved Gu Huaijin to keep Liuqing Comb.
I saved you so we could go home safely.
Besides,
you're my boss, after all.
I meant to say
what you said back there was good.
Really?
This is the first time
you've praised me.
You said something other
than "At least
you didn't get hurt this time."
That deserves praise.
Boss,
I'll work harder from now on.
And then?
What happened to Miss Gu?
Then,
she had her own path to walk.
And I had things I needed to do.
That's so heartless.
What?
I hate stories without endings.
Couldn't you have gone back to check
if Miss Gu inherited
the family business,
get married,
or become a nun?
She didn't offend you in any way.
Can't you at least wish her well?
Besides, this isn't a huaben.
There are no endings in real life.
No.
I need an ending.
Alright.
How about this?
From then on,
a ghost-masked escort appeared
in the martial world.
Though slender in build,
their strikes were swift and ruthless.
With that eerie, cold mask,
they struck terror into every bandit,
earning both fear and reverence.
How's that ending?
That's more like it.
Here.
Still, I think
Miss Gu
is a bit like you.
Really?
Of course.
Miss Gu was beautiful,
but she didn't need to wear
fancy ornaments or clothes.
But when it comes to
dominating presence,
that mischievous and willful look,
you outdo her by far.
What do you mean, I don't need
fancy ornaments or clothes?
Bizhi, you're unusually talkative today.
Do you like it?
Gold-inlaid jade.
Butterfly hairpin.
Yes.
I searched this for you.
What I wanted was a
gold-inlaid jade dragonfly hairpin.
You shouldn't make such a basic mistake.
Is there really a difference?
Dragonflies and butterflies are insects.
I'll let it slide this time.
But if you bring the wrong one again,
I'll punish you severely.
Thank you, Market Lord.
Consider this butterfly hairpin
as my apology.
I'll find you a dragonfly hairpin
as soon as possible.
That's more like it.
You're still bringing him along.
I need some more time
to investigate his life history.
Let me warn you.
Time travelers should avoid attachments.
Otherwise, history may repeat itself.
Tuanzi,
spit it out.
Spit it out.
- Chun Ge, I brought you food.
- Wait.
My hostage is in its mouth.
Spit it out.
Tuanzi.
Tuanzi, please.
Spit it out.
Tuanzi, spit it out.
Tuanzi, I'll kneel for you, okay?
Tuanzi.
Right. I'll trade this with you, okay?
That one doesn't taste good.
Tuanzi,
let go.
Spit it out.
I'll do it.
Tuanzi,
let go.
Let go.
Here.
Why are you so naughty?
Where's the head?
Uh.
Tuanzi, let go.
Why are you so naughty?
Here you go.
I'll buy you a new one.
No need.
I'll just glue it back.
Su Beilu, why are you back so late?
If you hadn't returned, Tuanzi
would've torn Chun Ge's place apart.
We couldn't stop it.
Let's clean up the mess and eat.
Yes.
Wait.
Go over there.
Go.
Come on.
Back.
Thank you.
Su Beilu,
is this you?
That's Chun Ge.
I'm the one next to him.
Let's have some congee.
Bei.
Wait.
Wipe your hands.
Here.
I'll help you.
Come.
Mom,
you're blocking my comic.
Later,
finish your congee
and do your homework.
Did you hear me?
Alright, Mrs. Chun.
Good boy.
Drink up.
Mom nags me all the time.
So annoying.
You don't know how lucky you are.
Today is October 13th, 2005.
China's independently developed
Shenzhou 6 human spaceflight
was successfully launched yesterday
from Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center.
The estimated flight time is five days.
The spaceflight will first enter orbit
at an inclination of 42.4 degrees.
Bei,
are you tired?
- Do you want to get some sleep?
- I'm not sleepy.
I'm folding a dog.
You really like dogs.
How about this?
If you do well this semester,
we'll let you have one.
Alright?
Okay!
You're spoiling him again.
It's just one dog. What's the harm?
Think of it as keeping him company.
I'm getting a puppy!
Yes!
I'm so happy!
Mom!
Tuanzi,
don't worry.
I promise
I'll give you a home.
♪Vast is the autumn light
of heaven and earth♪
♪Ink of pine soot melts
beneath the brush tip♪
♪Let me quietly paint a scroll
of fading mountains and rivers♪
♪Time weathers every contour♪
♪Verdigris creeps into the creases
of sword engravings♪
♪A forgotten dream♪
♪What use is glory,
even if it's written in the records♪
♪Autumn leaves drift and fall♪
♪Snow piles thick before the house♪
♪The seasons change and blend as one♪
♪The figure in the mirror
lowers their eyes♪
♪Love and hatred, gratitude
and grievance, spoken only in silence♪
♪A gilded promise written in a book♪
♪Legends of love and hate♪
♪Left for time to decide♪
♪If you are one who knows me,
and you are still waiting for me♪
♪Regret, do not forget♪
♪Combing through the threads
of present and future♪
♪A whirlpool of right and wrong♪
♪Left to the years to carve at will♪
♪When this door is opened♪
♪Within a span no wider than a palm♪
♪One step spans a thousand years♪
♪Vast is the autumn light
of heaven and earth♪
♪Ink of pine soot melts
beneath the brush tip♪
♪Let me quietly paint a scroll
of fading mountains and rivers♪
♪Time weathers every contour♪
♪Verdigris creeps into the creases
of sword engravings♪
♪A forgotten dream♪
♪What use is glory,
even if it's written in the records♪
♪Autumn leaves drift and fall♪
♪Snow piles thick before the house♪
♪The seasons change and blend as one♪
♪The figure in the mirror
lowers their eyes♪
♪Love and hatred, gratitude and
grievance, spoken only in silence♪
♪A gilded promise written in a book♪
♪Legends of love and hate♪
♪Left for time to decide♪
♪If you are one who knows me,
and you are still waiting for me♪
♪Regret, do not forget♪
♪Combing through the threads
of coming and going♪
♪A whirlpool of right and wrong♪
♪Left to the years to carve at will♪
♪When this door is opened♪
♪Within a palm's breadth,
a thousand years♪